in this video we're going to talk about
the
strategic situation globally
from what's ultimately a pragmatic and
even machiavellian perspective
we're going to talk about the politics
of china in relation to canada
and the united states morally
which obviously right now has to include
what we can call
the genocide question right both
are important which one is more
important
ultimately it's the pragmatic and
machiavellian side of things
because that's going to impact billions
of people's lives it's going to be a
matter of life and death
and also of course it's going to have
impact
on the world economy right now
this is the end of february 2021.
we have had a shocking turn in world
diplomatic affairs the united states
and canada quite independently took
steps
to alienate china and make it clear that
in the post-donald trump
era both the united states and canada
would be much more ferociously and
aggressively
anti-chinese than they had been
previously
now
intentions are to some extent separable
from actions it is quite likely that the
declaration made
by the canadian parliament was not
thought about
diplomatically or strategically in this
sense it is quite likely that what just
happened in canadian parliament
was an attempt by the conservative party
to show how unpopular the leadership of
the liberal party was
even within the liberal party to turn
the government of canada against itself
if you like and to create discontent and
debate
within canadian parliament for reasons
that only make sense when you're looking
at canada
as one political unit under itself it is
quite likely
that there was no grand plan or grand
strategy for what would happen next
in canada's relationship with china or
canada's relationship with the united
states
or what have you because that initiative
did not come
from the party in power it did not come
from the liberal party it came
from the conservative party nevertheless
the canadian parliament
this week passing a resolution
condemning china for genocide
and this is genocide hypothetically or
theoretically against their own people
against the people of xinjiang province
xinjiang
region the west okay that is something
china will not forgive and
will not forget this is
deadly serious from china's perspective
now meanwhile on the other side of the
world joe biden
showed up in munich
at an annual strategic conference
that is normally not that important but
probably seems a little bit more
important this year than in other years
because of the context of the
coronavirus pandemic
the difficulty world leaders have of
attending any conferences in person
um and that people gather there in part
to strategize about or
compare notes about what will happen
next
in the post-donald trump universe right
that
new things are possible some
possibilities disappeared and new new
doors are opening now that donald trump
has been removed
from the global strategic picture right
and
of course partly also just because of
the ongoing progress of
coronavirus vaccines world leaders would
have a lot to talk about that way
and the connected and attended questions
of world trade
world economics right so the munich
conference is more
important in 2021 than it might have
been in in some other year
all right and joe biden made what was
very clearly
a scripted and prepared statement not a
spontaneous
comment that we
we the western powers organized at that
conference
we are supposed to regard china
as our major serious and strategic
long-term threat to make matters worse
this language clearly talking about a
global
anti-china alliance short-term and
long-term
of western democracies against china
came in the context of some
genuinely diplomatic comments about
russia
just a few moments before so
bizarrely he made some very generally
positive statements that the cold war
mentality
has to end i think that must have been
in reference to vladimir putin i don't
know
yeah it wasn't in reference to china
getting what he said next about china
soon thereafter right
so he was talking about an end to cold
war hostilities and a cold war mentality
given the current situation in ukraine
through the still
current still ongoing situation in
ukraine still current
still ongoing situation in syria still
current still ongoing situation in
belarus
and within russia itself you know the
arrest of uh
one of putin's major vocal critics
recently alexei navalny
there have been many flashpoints
reminding us that
the situation between the united states
and russia is
it's close to a cold war and by the way
also economically
just the situation in terms of absolute
sanctions
i.e the refusal to cooperate
economically or even educationally or
otherwise
do you guys have a whole lot of uh you
know russian university students
coming to study wherever you live you
know
there was a time i remember back in the
1990s
uh and early 2000s yeah but really i'm
thinking of the late 1990s
i remember when the university of
toronto campus was full of russians i
mean
anyway do you do do you see a lot of
positive cooperation with russia
wherever it is you're living when you
watch this video right it is
it is we are close to a cold war
situation with russia in fact
so to follow up those diplomatic
statements seemingly about russia
with a hard long-term
anti-china policy being declared
by biden after we've all escaped from
the
cloud cast over world politics by
donald trump who by the way he did
accomplish
some remarkable things during his time
of government it wasn't all bad if you
look at the foreign policy
and from my perspective i don't give
trump himself credit for that i do
assume it was other
other competent people in his government
who struggled
to accomplish positive things in world
politics but when the reckoning is done
it was it was not all bad nevertheless
trump as an individual was so mercurial
so unpredictable so dangerous that yes
it is fair to say he cast a dark cloud
over international politics what
what was possible for example at this
conference in munich
who could even have a meaningful
conversation about the future of
democracy or
strategy or what have you uh when donald
trump was in power or and
again a great example is donald trump's
involvement with ukraine
the ukraine slash russia crisis what an
absolute debacle terrible and nobody
nobody knew what was supposed to happen
next right so
that's gone right we have we have the
opportunity for new optimism in the
world
and with those comments you know in
munich
joe biden just slammed the door on any
possible outdoors right
so joe biden has made two
major strategic decisions
in this machiavellian strategic side of
world politics
just just within this last month okay
one he slammed the door on china two he
slammed the door on saudi arabia
now how i personally feel about that
morally or ethically
or what i would do in his position um
is really irrelevant and trivial okay
you don't
you know you don't sign treaties
with your allies you sign them with your
enemies you don't make peace with your
friends
you make peace with your enemies
globally
one of the most compelling reasons for
the united states
to be in an alliance with china is that
china is one of the only countries in
the world the united states
could be in an alliance with all right
the united states cannot cannot
be in an alliance with or cooperating
with or on good terms with
iran it is impossible the range of
possibilities
for u.s relationships with iran go from
outright war to you know some kind of
you know barely tolerable
treaty arrangement where each side is
watching every other
you know footstep taken it's it it's
going to be bad
to terrible relationships between the us
and iran and we all
celebrate if it's bad instead of
terrible right that's all that's
possible with iran
turkey politically are you sleeping on
turkey
turkey is today again a major
powerful world empire okay the french
are not ignoring the steps that turkey
has taken
to expand its power in the region and
frankly globally
okay the germans are not sleeping on it
the greeks
are not sleeping on it okay the
egyptians
are not sleeping on it all of north
africa libya
is not sleeping on it okay you can
ignore what turkey is doing
at your peril what's possible for u.s
foreign policy on turkey
it's going to be bad or it's going to be
terrible like there's such a limited
range of positive
outcomes there okay if you look around
the globe
i just i don't i don't want to sound
like a jerk here i don't
all right seriously what what do you
think's possible between the united
states and india
a lot of you people have not studied i
don't want to sound like a jerk here
i could ask this is an open minded way
have you spent any time
studying the politics of india have you
have you read a book about the politics
of india i've read
several okay i'm not an india specialist
but yes i do have
decades of experience reading about
following the politics of india it comes
up rarely on this channel
so compared to my fellow canadians or
even compared to the average
lobbyist in washington dc i know quite a
bit about the policy india indian
what is possible with u.s relations u.s
cooperation with with india
very little okay now obviously
much more positive situation than iran
motion positive situation than turkey
okay but if you want to have
allies if you want to have cooperation
if you want to make the world a better
place
very little is possible with india and a
great deal
is possible with china all right so
one of the most compelling reasons
to have more positive relations with
china
is just that it is possible something
can change what is possible
in russia as long as vladimir putin is
in power
in one word nothing
so what the hell is joe biden doing
saudi arabia is in the middle of a war
to try to conquer and control yemen
yemen is much more immediate to saudi
arabia
than mexico is to the united states you
can live in los angeles
and feel like mexico is a far
off distant foreign country you know it
feels remote to the lives of most
americans
yemen is much more intimately integrated
into
daily life in saudi arabia it's not just
geographical
it's cultural it's linguistic it's
historical right it's it's not just in
saudi arabia's
neighborhood it really is saudi arabia's
backyard and joe biden has just said
that they are not going to sell arms
munitions bullets airplanes they are not
going to sell
armaments to saudi saudi arabia so the
saudis can pursue that
that war not give not donate right it's
not
the u.s isn't going to support the u.s
isn't it's not just the u.s saying
they're not going to invade
to participate in the recall conquest of
uh yemen
they're stabbing the saudis and the
banks and they're forcing
saudi arabia to instead buy munitions
from the russians or possibly from the
chinese
right where do you think saudi arabia is
now going to buy tanks and airplanes to
fight this war
saudi arabia doesn't have a choice they
have to fight that war all right
i may be the harshest critic on earth of
the government
of saudi arabia i mean to say to say
that i do not sympathize
with a
feudal aristocracy ruling saudi arabia
and it's
it's a muslim fundamentalist feudal
aristocracy is that to say i don't
sympathize is an understatement
right saudi arabia has to fight that war
and they have to win
there are absolutely no two ways about
it right there's no no
third possible conclusion that war so
what can joe biden
possibly gain by alienating saudi arabia
and stabbing them back on this it's
shocking
it's a major twist in the road now
one possibility which i i can't
believe is true one possibility is that
joe biden instead
wants to be an ally of turkey and turkey
is a rival to
an enemy of saturn it's possible he
instead wants to be an ally of
iran that would be a massive reversal of
u.s foreign policy
if the united states became pro-iranian
and anti-saudi arabian and that would be
extremely shocking to
israel because israel is basically part
of this anti-iranian
alliance you know look i doubt it
i think joe biden is just totally
incompetent
that's that's my analysis of these two
big decisions i think joe biden
has no idea what he's doing
strategically
in foreign policy and obviously given
his long career
that is shocking to behold okay
if you followed the presidential debates
back when
he was debating against bernie sanders
before he really got
practiced at reading these prepared
statements
there were always worrying signs
of the cognitive decline of joe biden
and if you went back and looked at
joe biden as a young man as i did partly
because sources like the new york times
made it easy for me to do
i i didn't have to do a lot of research
to hear sound clips of and read
quotations from what joe biden was like
as a
young man his cognitive decline was not
starting
from a very high level he he was a
really weird guy
as a younger man there are many times
when you're listening to or reading
those quotations of him as young man and
he seems crazy he seems out of touch
with reality he just seems
astoundingly stupid back then so yeah so
me you know what maybe cognitive decline
is not appropriate now guys
i could have said the exact same thing
about donald trump
two years ago right i could have said
about donald trump hey
everyone's talking about cognitive
decline and senility for this guy but
have you gone back and listened to
the way he sounded in the 1980s have you
listened to sound clips of him as a
young man or interviews with him
or have you read what he was writing
back then as a young man with donald
trump also you can talk about cognitive
decline but decline
from what you were starting already at a
very low level
of demonstrated intelligence with either
one of these guys
so yes the possibility that this is just
incompetence on buying this part is very
real
it is easy for me to imagine that biden
performed that script
in munich with no knowledge of no memory
of
how seriously the chinese have taken
similar declarations and announcements
in the past
there's a famous example of the owner
of a multi-national news corporation
guy who owned many newspapers tv
stations satellite-based
cable tv entertainment services this
kind of thing a magnate of that kind
and he made one statement
at one public event
about how his organization was going to
help to bring
democracy to china and all of the
corporations he owned all of the
businesses he had
any investment in were immediately and
permanently
banned from china there's this one
statement and it was translated into
chinese
and shared and that was it and before
that like many multi-millionaires
he'd had cooperation in china and he was
growing a business there and he was
really hoping
to expand his presence uh in china
and he kept going to the chinese
government saying look he was willing to
play by whatever rules the chinese
government opposed like if they only
wanted him to play
movies and entertainment like he would
do that like he was saying look you just
tell me the rules and i'll play by the
rules
and no he was basically he was never
able to do any business in china
ever again for the rest of his life that
was taken incredibly seriously about the
chinese establishment
i don't see any way the chinese
establishment
as existed today in 201 could laugh off
or ignore
these comments made by by joe biden
the worst part of all diplomatically and
strategically
is the use of the first person plural
right
joe biden standing there at the munich
conference he doesn't say
what i'm gonna do he doesn't say what
the united states ought to do what
should do he's talking about what we
have to do as a strategy long term and
in this case we
obviously mean some kind of loose
alliance of the united states
england germany france i mean you know
it doesn't spell out
uh australia i guess you know who's in
who's in on this anti-china
global conspiracy but that's that's what
he's saying
and he is also very clearly saying this
is not merely a
political rivalry he's talking about in
terms of
economic warfare
i think it's fair to say that joe biden
has no
knowledge of no appreciation of no
understanding of chinese politics or
chinese culture i don't think i'm going
way out on a limb in saying that joe
biden from delaware
he may have expertise in many other
fields of politics he managed to give
some very moving
speeches about race relations between
blacks and whites during the campaign
that's something he's lived with his
whole life i mean he's lived with the
gap
between uh ethnically black and
ethically white people in america and
those like
i'm not saying this guy knows nothing
about any topic
but the gap between western democracy
and china the gap between
american political culture and chinese i
think
joe biden is out of his depth here he's
uh
he's swimming in in the wrong ocean you
know entirely
on this issue okay um
let's look just to come back to the
first premise here very briefly
if you make an enemy out of china if you
make an enemy
out of saudi arabia if you already have
an enemy
in russia you already have an enemy in
iran
and the new rising turkish world
world empire of turkey as a world power
once again
okay who are your friends who are you
making peace with
who are you cooperating with all right
and we can talk about that on a purely
machiavellian
strategic level where are you going to
make progress
right
i don't think the answer is going to be
india
you know they call a really visionary
leader from the united states of america
you have to you have to go there
you have to do shoe leather politics
you'd have to go and live in india and
shake those people's hands
you'd have to overcome you know a
century of hostility
and bad relations and you'd have to
you'd have to really commit to
a high level and low-level cooperation
you'd have to have
yes so yeah it's possible if america is
willing to commit to it
they could they could refashion their
whole grand
strategy globally by making a
deep alliance with india that is
something that both
australia and japan have been trying to
do now for many years there
is an overt um military
triangle really it's a military alliance
between japan australia and india
so america could step in and say hey
guys this is a nice triangle you've got
going on here let's
make it a square um and that would
commit america long term to being an
absolute enemy of china because china
and india don't mix
it's you got to pick one side of the
other there and indeed up until now
that has been one of the limits on
possible american
uh cooperation with india but there are
others
if you think the memory of the vietnam
war
lasts long in southern california uh
let me tell you for india um
that they they remember vietnam and they
remember cambodia
in a way nobody else does okay so
they have their own history of what they
what they perceive
as the reckless you know
massacres of the american american
imperialism run amok
in asia and they'd just come out of a
background of the critique of the
british empire
and then they were looking at what the
american empire did after world war ii
and their assessment of that was very
negative and they really do see
i mean to some extent correctly they saw
america as a as a threat
um in a way that in that historical
period
england and france and spain were not
right
now of course they also see china as a
threat a top for another video but
that's that's kind of kid stuff all
right
now look we now turn to the other big
category
introduced at the start of this video
the ethical
side of the argument including questions
of genocide
uh forced assimilation okay
i grew up in toronto
canada everywhere i went in toronto
i saw chinese restaurants often enough
korean restaurants mexican restaurants
have you ever once in toronto
seen a mohawk restaurant have you seen
an iroquois
restaurant have you seen an ojibwe
restaurant have you seen a cree
restaurant now i think during my
childhood
there were actually zero in the city of
toronto
right on the streets of the city of
there were chinese newspapers i know
newsprint in general is going out of
style
but when i was a kid there were chinese
newspapers there were korean newspapers
i believe there was also
a vietnamese newspaper i saw around
have you ever once in your life seen a
printed
newspaper in the mohawk language in the
iroquois language in the cree language
in the ojibwe
language
our history of genocide here in canada
and the united states
is very real it's genocide
in every meaningful sense
of the term now if you go to china
by contrast it's not just that they have
xinjiang restaurants in xinjiang
there are xinjiang restaurants
in beijing in kunming
in every corner of the mega
continent that is china i mean china
in terms of its population and just how
much of it is habitable
is a much bigger place than it looks on
the map whereas whereas canada is a much
smaller place
like we just can't have a lot of land
but most of it is empty and it's not
inhabited it doesn't have any cultural
depth and so on because
now we have tundra all right china
is a world unto itself and it is
not just the case that xinjiang culture
and language and cuisine thrives within
xinjiang
okay it's everywhere else also
we used to eat at one xinjiang
restaurant when we were in a small town
in yunnan um because they could make a
vegan noodle
dish and they were they were muslim and
the woman wore the full head scarf and
stuff they were traditional xinjiang
muslim people
who had gone and opened a restaurant
selling that cuisine and another
okay i never once had the experience
growing up
as a child never once of eating ojibwe
food
served to me by an ojibwe person who
spoke the ojibwe language
and wore an ojibwe costume a traditional
style of dress sorry
regalia one shouldn't say costume i
never had the experience
of this with the mohawk or the iroquois
or
anyone else all right
indigenous culture in canada is close to
disappearing
even in the areas where the native
people comprise
10 percent of the population
they have become an endangered culture
an endangered language and an endangered
people even in their own homeland
okay that is not
what happened to the people of xinjiang
after they were conquered by the qing
dynasty
all right and it is also not what is
happening
in xinjiang today under the chinese
government
okay one of the surreal statistics
that the chinese government points out
in terms of the
status of islam as a religion in sinjar
is the number of temples now i think
it's very important to emphasize
islam is not a race okay islam is not a
culture
islam is a religion all right and it is
possible
to be genuinely opposed to islam as an
atheist
or from whatever perspective presumably
an atheist
while not encouraging the extinction of
an indigenous language an indigenous
culture an indigenous style of
food or clothing or anything else in any
other sense
right uh it is true
that china is supporting the
secularization
of xinjiang as would i
okay i'm ethnically jewish
i support the secularization of the
state of israel
i support not just conceptual atheism
for the people of israel i also think
their government should be reformed
to cease to be a theocracy to cease to
have any status for judaism
as a religion within government and to
to really be
institutionally secularized or
institutionally
atheist i think that's tremendous
important i think that within israel
religious schools should be abolished i
don't think
you know muslim children should be
raised in muslim schools i don't think
jewish children should be raised in
jewish schools i don't think
christian children should be raised in
christian schools i think it's
tremendously important
to have secular atheist scientific
education basically for
everyone okay so yes the government of
china has an agenda for
the secularization of islam of
the muslim majority people in sinjiang
and guess what
that is also their policy for buddhist
people
in tibet and for animist people
in yunnan we used to live in
yunnan china there are indigenous people
there who are neither
christian nor buddhist nor muslim but
have their own unique
religion that we generally call animism
like the jing jingpo
okay there are
jingpo religion
i could make that point too i was gonna
say look there are jingpo
religious temples there are jingpo
restaurants
in yunnan and you see jingpo signs
and people wearing the traditional
costumes and attending festivals and
doing their traditional dances
and playing their traditional music all
right the jing pull
have not been moved to the brink of
extinction the chinese government's
policy about the jing po
has not been genocidal in the way that
the canadian government and the american
government
have had genocidal policies against
their native people believe it or not
there's something really positive and
important that canadians and americans
can learn
from the history of china's ethnic
minority policies
and in case you hadn't heard in the bad
old days
under mao zedong yeah it was a disaster
huge numbers of people died but huge
numbers of people of all
ethnicities in china died and don't you
ever forget it right
don't you ever forget that ethnic
chinese people members of the majority
they starve to death and they were
killed and they were oppressed also so
this is
uh in that context but yeah of course
uh ethnic minority life in china was
also terrible
uh during the years of mao zedong
communism the cultural revolution the
great leap forward you know so on and so
forth this is not
i'm not trying to redeem any of that
history all right
but nevertheless despite that
when you are looking at the ethnic
minorities in china and their history
in the last 500 years and then you look
at
the history of our indigenous ethnic
minorities in canada the united states
in the last 500 years guess which
country
comes out as morally and ethically
superior here
it's china and it's not even close and
there is
no comparison i've said this before so i
just mentioned very briefly we were
living in a small
ethnic minority uh town or city
on the cusp of chinese civilization in
yeonen
and one of the high schools was called
the beast it was called the ethnic
minority
high school it was the high school for
the indigenous people
and it was the best high school it was
the most prestigious
high school and one of the problems they
had to deal with was that there were so
many ethnically chinese families so
members of the ethnic majority
right were applying to have their
children go to that school
because it was the best and numerically
there weren't
that many of the indigenous people and
they had to struggle
to try to keep some like 30 percent of
the students
being the indigenous minority they just
were trying to recruit them in from the
countryside to have enough
indigenous minority people that the the
special school for the indigenous might
already still had this character to it
because it was the best school in the
province
it was the most desirable most elite
school
any student could attend so all the
chinese families want to send their kids
there
have you ever heard of anything like
that
for the cree or the ojibwe or the navajo
all right they did not get our best
schools they were not the center of our
attention of our
government policy right you have never
heard of
white families in saskatchewan or
manitoba
lobbying the government so that white
children can get into the same schools
the special schools for the the native
people all right it's the opposite
white people are avoiding and running
away from those schools and they're the
worst schools and the most deplorable
with the lowest quality of education and
also by the way with
lower budgets and lower pay for the
teachers i've done research on that
stuff
there are some very obvious ways in
which that's still a worse
school system but the whole history of
it is is terrible okay
there are a lot of things china has
fundamentally done
right in relation to xinjiang
and in relation to all of the ethnic
minorities
it's very curious
that this critique in 2021 is
exclusively
directed at xinjiang and not at tibet
was anyone else alive when the beastie
boys had a special concert tour
supporting tibet they did several songs
in their album or about that they did a
whole tour
remember that remember that like and i
don't know what it is so
i know the real history i know how much
of the tibetan story is and
propaganda and what the reality
i know i know that for xinjiang also
right i'm in this tiny minority of white
western people who know what's really up
with chinese politics
okay
if there were any validity at all to
this discourse about xinjiang
there would be ten times more validity
to offering the same critique of tibet
and i i just don't know
why that is i mean if this is your
concern
i mean if you are morally opposed to
people in xinjiang
learning the chinese language at all
like you think the only language they
should learn should be their
indigenous language right because
currently the chinese education system
is bilingual
they learn their own language and they
also learn standard chinese
tibet same story basically they do learn
tibetan they do have tibetan in schools
and even in the universities
right but they also learn chinese which
is one of the most powerful
and important languages in the history
of the world and in the present world
and in the future
i would love it for my own children to
grow up knowing english and also
knowing chinese so if you were tibetan
or you were a xinjiang person
you probably also would see the
advantages of getting your kid bilingual
education rather monument
but if you really believe this argument
about xinjiang then that argument would
make 10 times more sense
about tibet and i just wonder if after
so many decades
of people kind of uh whipping a dead
horse on tibet
i don't know has there been some level
of cynicism
has there been some level of skepticism
about the tibetan independence movement
about the claims made about
i i have at this moment i have
absolutely no
uh explanation of this okay
i recognize that
having restaurants representing
your indigenous ethnic minority is not
what really matters
okay i recognize that i recognize that
having newspapers
or street signs in the language or
festivals or
traditional styles of dress i recognize
that that's not ultimately what matters
with the survival of indigenous people
indigenous cultures and their
incorporation into
a democracy i recognize that these are
imperfect and indirect ways of
marking or tracking genocide and what i
can only
call in this video the opposite of
genocide
you know what matters ultimately
are political rights and political
power
how many senators in the united states
of america
today in 2021
are american indians are indigenous
people
how many senators in the entire
history of the united states of america
were in any meaningful sense
native americans indigenous people
the absence of those restaurants the
absence of those languages
the absence of those newspapers right
it very imperfectly reflects
the total disenfranchisement of the
total silencing of
a whole category of people that the
united states and canada both
were founded to
extinguish